Envoy ALPHA Developer's Disk

Readme, June 6, 1992

DO NOT DISTRIBUTE this disk outside of Commodore.  DO NOT DISCUSS this
disk or project with anyone outside of Commodore, not even those under
NDA (i.e., Certified or Commercial Developers).  A beta developer's disk
for those under NDA is planned for a late June release and will include
appropriate announcements regarding the whole project.

This disk includes a very early version of the Envoy Network Filesystem
(EFS). Use at your own risk, and be aware that it provides absolutely no
security, not even with regard to which filesystems are(n't) exported. 
To use the filesystem, you use the 2.1 mount command (which is installed
for you if you have 2.0).  Two mount entries are provided for machines
you can use, see devs:DosDrivers/(big|softserv).  You can drag these
into WBStartup. A GUI tool will eventually be provided for EFS mounting
and creating mountlist entries.

This disk does not include Envoy Printer Services or other user
applications and interfaces.  This disk may include some toys which
allow Envoy to be useful even if these toys aren't fully developed and
flexible enough for general use. Inclusion of such toys on this disk
does not imply that they will be a part of any externally released
developer or user disks.  See the Envoy Product Description document for
details on what to expect in the initial and in future releases (note
that Mail, FTP-alike and an RPC mechanism are planned for future
releases).

See the newsgroup amiga.release for release information on updates and
limitations of current releases.

Please don't yet send bug reports to the bug database.  In case you have
bug reports, questions, comments, etc.:

The Amiga Networking Group is:
	Brian Jackson, Dale Larson, Greg Miller and Kenneth Dyke.
	email: (bj|dlarson|gregm|kcd)@commodore.COM

Envoy Credits:
	Brian Jackson  - Section Head, Amiga Networking Group.
	Greg Miller    - Envoy Project Manager, nipc.library, filesystem.
	Dale Larson    - authentication, printers, examples and docs.
	Kenneth Dyke   - name resolution, services.library, filesystem
