Envoy User Documentation Outline
--------------------------------

I.   Introduction - Concepts

     A. Concepts

     	1. Clients

     	2. Servers

     	3. Peer to Peer

     B. Network Types

        1. Simple

        2. Complex

II.  Getting Started

     A. Hardware Requirements

     B. Software Installation

        1.  Hard Disk Systems

        2.  Floppy Only Systems

III. User and Group Administration

     A. Introduction

     	1.   What is a User?

     	2.   What is a Group?

     B. User Administration

     	1.  Starting the User Administration Tool

     	2.  Adding a new user

     	3.  Changing a user's information

     	4.  Removing a user

     C. Group Administration

     	1.  Starting the Group Administration Tool

     	2.  Adding a group

     	3.  Adding a new group member

     	4.  Removing a group member

     	5.  Removing a group

     D. Remote Administration

IV.  File Sharing

     A. Introduction

     B. Exporting Filesystems

     	1.  Introduction

     	2.  Starting the Filesystem Exports Tool

     	3.  Selecting Filesystems to Export

     	4.  Security Options

     C. Importing Filesystems

     	1.  Intruduction

	2.  Starting the Filesystem Imports Tool

	3.  Selecting a Fileserver

	4.  Logging In

	5.  Selecting a Filesystem to Import

     D. New DOS commands

        1.  List

        2.  Protect

        3.  Owner

        4.  Group

V.   Printer Sharing

     A. Introduction

     B. Importing a Network Printer

     C. Exporting a Printer to the Network

VI.  Services

     A. Adding New Services

     B. Removing Services

     C. Enabling/Disabling Services

VII. Advanced Network Configuration

     A. Careful network design can save you a lot of trouble in the long run.

	1.

     	2.  It is often advantageous to break large networks up into smaller pieces via subnetting.

     	    a. Network traffic can be localized to a specific area.

     	    b. Useful when combining different hardware types, such as Ethernet and FDDI.

     	       i.   In many installations, smaller networks are interconnected via networks known as a backbone network.

     	       ii.  Backbone networks are usually faster than normal networks.

     	       iii. An example would be to have machines in a single classroom hooked up via Arcnet, while
     	            using Ethernet to connect one classroom with another.

     	3.  In order for multiple physical networks to communicate with each other, machines known as routers must be used.

     	    a. A router is a machine with multiple network interfaces that are connected to different networks.

     	    b. Routers know how to direct packets through the use of routing tables supplied to them at configuration time.

     B. Internet Addressing

     	1.  The network addressign scheme used by Envoy is defined by the DARPA Internet Protocol (IP)

     	    a. IP Addresses consist of a 32-bit number that is divided into two parts, network number and host number.

     	    b. There are currently three defined IP Address classes.

               i.   Class A addresses are those with the most significant bit set to a 0.

                    a) Class A addresses use 8 bits to specify a network.

                    b) Class A addresses use 24 bits to specify a particular host.

		    c) Class A addresses allow for up to 16 million hosts on a particualr network.

               ii.  Class B addresses are those with the two most significant bits set to 10.

                    a) Class B addresses use 16 bits to specify a network.

                    b) Class B addresses use 16 bits to specify a particular host.

		    c) Class B addresses allow for up to 65,000 hosts on a particular network.

               iii. Class C Addresses are those with the three most significant bits set to 110.

                    a) Class C addresses use 24 bits to specify a network.

                    b) Class C addresses use 8 bits to specify a particular host.

             	    c) Class C addresses allow for up to 254 hosts on a particular network.

            c. IP addresses are usually specified as four decimal numbers separated by periods, such as 137.239.17.5.

            d. An IP Network address is usually specified by using zeros for the host portion of the address.

               i.   An example of a class A network address might be 38.0.0.0

               ii.  An example of a class B network address would be 137.239.0.0

               iii. An example of a class C network address would be 192.9.210.0

        2.  A common way to support multiple networks within a particular IP address class is by using subnets.

            a. Subnets allow you to extend the portion of an IP address used to specify a particular network.

            b. Subnets are specified by using a custom subnet mask, instead of the one defined by IP addressing.

            c. A good example of using subnets would be a university that was assigned a class B network address.

               i.   For example, let's assume a university has been assigned an IP network address of 137.239.0.0.

               ii.  The default subnet mask for this class B IP address is 255.255.0.0.

               iii. A good way to break this network up would be to use a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0.

                    a)  Under this scheme, the first three bytes of the address would select a physical network.

                    b)  Each subnet could then have up to 254 hosts.

               iv.  Because this is a class B address, the first two bytes cannot be changed, but the third byte
                    can be anything from 0 to 254.

                    a) It is usually a good idea to choose a deterministic numbering scheme for physical networks
                       based on the network's location.

                    b) For example, one such scheme might be to use a building and floor number as part of the network
                       address.

                    c) For illustration purposes, we'll use the formula of B*10+F to determine the third byte of the
                       network address.

                       i)  B = Building Number

                       ii) F = Floor Number

                    b) A network located on the second floor in building seven would then have a network address of
                       137.239.72.0.

            d. Each subnet must have at least one machine that is connected to one or more other subnets.

               (This would be a really good place for a diagram.  It's almost impossible to show how this works
                without a couple of pictures.)

     C. Configuring Envoy for use on internets

     	1.  Configuring the Realm Server(s)

     	2.  Configuring hosts

VIII.Using Envoy with AS225 Release 2

