July 14, 1992 - Known problems in beta 1 release
------------------------------------------------

1. rshd (1.1) causes the client rsh to not output a final linefeed when 
   it returns.

2. rlogin (37.17) (12196 bytes)

   Now offers jump scrolliing. This is done in a rather crude manner and
   things like the mail reader 'elm' can get things confused.  Rlogin makes
   a simple count of 'lines' in it's internal buffer and then simply
   scrolls up that many lines and writes in the  buffer. Elm (and others,
   I'm sure) send a LOT of ANSI sequences.  These sequences add up to a lot
   of "lines" that aren't really there. This will be improved at a later
   date. In the meantime, turn off jump scroll if this behaviour affects
   you.

3. ftpd (2.0)  (42040 bytes)

   This version of ftpd has been fixed to conform to RFC959.
   
   Unfortunately, this conformance introduces a user visible change.  While
   technically, this is the fault of the client (ftp) instead of the server
   (ftpd), the change will be seen whenever an old ftp client calls a new
   ftpd server.
   
   The problem is that the old ftpd implemented the NLST command by execing
   /bin/ls.  This produced non-conformant output in some cases.  The new
   ftpd no longer executes /bin/ls for the NLST command as it has it's own
   built-in code.
   
   The user visible change in the ftp behavior is caused by the ftp client
   "knowing" that the daemon will exec /bin/ls.  This assumption should not
   have been made.
   
   When the old ftp client is used, one of the options is the "ls" command
   which sends the command NLST to the ftpd server.  The client should
   really be sending the LIST command.  The new ftp client has been
   corrected to do this.
   
   NLST should not normally be used directly by humans.  It is intended to
   interface with commands like mget or mput.
   
   Users who are not able to upgrade their ftp client may obtain the
   previous behavior, by using the command "dir" instead of "ls".
   
   These changes only apply to those sites using code derived from the
   Berkeley software releases (which means almost every UNIX based
   implementation will see this problem).
   
   
end
