
 Using the Envoy Filesystem
 --------------------------

 Monday, November 16th, 1992
 Updated January 11th, 1993
 Updated October 6th, 1993

 The EFS is broken into two pieces -- a "client" and a "server".  The client
 is actually an AmigaDOS filesystem, and resides in l:.  The server is an
 Envoy Service, and resides in the Services directory of your Envoy
 distribution.

 Any machine can export and import mounts for EFS.  Which mounts are to
 exported or imported, however, must be specified by the user.

 On any machine exporting a filesystem, bring up the "Filesystem Exports"
 editor from the Configuration drawer.  This is where the user is
 to determine what directories are to be exported -- and who is capable of
 accessing them.

 Select 'Add' under the 'Shared Directories' listview.  A requester
 will appear, allowing you to specify what directory or volume
 you wish to make available via the network.  Click on 'Volumes', and select
 either a volume or a directory to export (do not select a file -- only a
 volume or directory).  Once selected, click 'OK'.  The directory or volume
 you selected should now be listed under "Shared Directories".  Click on it
 to verify that it's activated.  Click in the 'Name' string gadget on the
 right side of the screen.  This gadget specifies the Volume name that
 all clients will see your mount as (this is the name that clients will
 see under their disk icon on workbench).  Enter an informative string here.

 If don't want to bother with any security, select 'No Security'.  Otherwise,
 use the 'Add' button below the 'Users and Groups' listview to add
 the names of whichever users you wish to permit to access the mount that
 you've just created.  The three checkboxes in the upper-right corner of
 the editor specify whether you wish someone using the client to be able
 to Snapshot the disk icon for your mount, whether clients are allowed to
 utilize the 'Leave Out' Workbench feature on this mount, and whether you
 wish to utilize "full" permission protection on this mount.  (See the
 file NewFS for more information.)  A recent addition is the 'No Security'
 button, which eliminates the need to supply a list of users who can
 access a given directory or volume.  However, this allows -everyone-
 access to that given directory, which is a serious security
 problem.

 Once you've added all of the volumes or directories you wish to make
 available, click 'Save'.  On the next reboot, the exporting machine is
 prepared to act as a fileserver for the directories you selected.

 On a client, make use of the "Filesystem Imports" utility; select the
 machine, your username and password (for that machine), and you will be
 presented with a list of available mounts.  Select one, and click
 'Connect'.  If you decide you want the mount to be permanent, the
 program will create a mountfile and place it in either devs:dosdrivers (>2.0)
 or in SYS:WBStartup (2.0).  If you choose temporary, it will mount the
 device, but not retain the mountfile.

 You're allowed to import or export as many mounts as your machine's
 memory can handle.


