
How to develop Wack

--------------------

TO ADD DUMPING OF A (LIST OF) DATA NODE(S)

Write a function to do the job, modeled on dumpWindow in showi.c:
	dumpFoo( APTR arg, struct Foo *foo)
    where 'arg' is the address in the amiga of the data structure,
    and 'foo' is a pointer (on the Sun) to a copy of it.

Following the function, evoke one of the macros

    SHOWMIN( Foo ) or SHOWSIMPLE( Foo )

depending whether Foo is an exec node, or a singly linked list node.

These macros create functions ShowFoo(APTR arg) and ShowFooList(APTR arg)
which you then ...

Bind your new functions to a symbol.  This is done in initial.c.
You need both an extern reference to your function and a BindPrim()
statement.  Search for 'ShowWindow' to see an example.

And DON'T FORGET: add your function to 'extra help'.  This is in
special.c

--------------------

RCS

To work on Wack, set up a local directory, and copy the contents
of the source directory.  As needed, check out files.  I use
the following.

alias wackco co -l /batgirl/pub/src/wack/RCS/\!:1,v

When done, check things in by executing the shell script 'checkin'.
It will only check in the writable files for which there is a ,v.

It will also give you back a read-only copy of the file, and
put a read-only copy in the source directory.  If there is a corresponding
.o file, it will be copied to the source directory, too, so people
don't need to make the world when they copy the source directory.

Since people might have updated source files that you don't use,
you really should copy down everything from the source directory,
if you plan to do a 'make install.'

--------------------

MAKEFILE

    - We had lost some technology, so .asm.o rule was copying the .o
      from the Precious subdirectory, but Andy showed us where the
      new assembler tools are, so we're once again peachy, and
      building all the pieces.

    - 'make tags' creates ctags from the .{c,h} files. 
      It doesn't get structures or asm stuff yet

    - The include paths use V35 explicitly now.

    - Note that this program is built by the UNIX compiler: which
      may generate 020 or 010 code, depending which node you're on.
      You might have to 'rm *.o' and make everything to be safe.

    - make install copies to /usr/commodore/bin, for the same processor
    as your sun.

