
 Welcome to Envoy!

 This disk contains Envoy, Commodore's new peer-to-peer Amiga networking
 package.  This revision of Envoy provides the user with:

    - Network file sharing

    - Network printing

    - User Accounts and security precautions

    - Developer's documentation, includes, and autodocs

    - Ability to make use of any broadcast-capable SANA-II device

    And several other features.

 Because this is an early release, NO FORMAL USER DOCUMENTATION IS YET
 AVAILABLE FOR ENVOY; the scattered documentation enclosed in the
 Developer/doc directory gives rough explanations of the given tools.

 PLEASE NOTE:  ENVOY REQUIRES AT LEAST 2.04 TO OPERATE.  IT WILL >NOT<
               FUNCTION UNDER 1.3!

 For end-user technical support, please contact the company from whom
 you received Envoy.  Bugs should be reported to the same company, but
 if you have Internet access, you may also send bug reports in "Report"
 format directly to bugs@commodore.com which is the bug database.
 "Report" format bugs may be generated with the Amiga "report" program
 which is available in amiga.dev/listings on BIX.


 INSTALLATION
 ------------

 When opened, the Envoy Install disk will show two icons -- one for
 installing on a Floppy system, and one for installing on a Hard Drive
 system.  If you choose 'Floppy', you should already have made a copy of
 your boot floppy, and -have booted from that floppy-.  Because Envoy
 takes up space and most people have filled their boot floppies entirely,
 the install script will attempt to delete things like the IEEE math
 libraries and translator/narrator to make room.  If you're using non
 standard boot floppies, the possibility exists that the script will not
 be able to make enough room to install Envoy on the floppy.  If this
 happens, attempt to make as much room on the disk as you can, and run
 the installation again.

 Once started, the installation script will ask for your level of
 expertise on the Amiga.  The 'Novice' level is not available, as Envoy
 cannot be installed without some level of input from the user.  After
 determining your installation options, you'll be asked to specify
 where you wish Envoy to be installed.  (Specifically, you're being asked
 where you wish the 'Envoy' drawer to be created at.)  If you've previously
 done an Envoy install, the script will ask you whether you merely wish to
 update your previous release, or install from scratch.  (If you have
 previously installed an early version Envoy, it's recommended that you delete
 the old Envoy drawer (and it's contents) as well as all files
 in envarc:envoy.)  The script will procede to copy several files onto your
 system.

 Since Floppy-based systems are of limited resources, only hard disk users
 are offerred the possibility of exporting files or printers.  At this
 point in the installation, hard disk users are asked if they would like
 server programs installed.  If you wish the installed machine to ever
 export files or a printer, you should answer YES.  If you do answer YES,
 you're given the option of choosing what you would like to immediately
 export.  (These can be changed later with the 'Services Configuration'
 tool.)  Automatically selected are 'Printer' and 'Filesystem'.  If you have
 a printer you want other to be able to access, leave 'Printer' selected.
 Otherwise, click on the checkmark to deselect it.  If you wish others
 to be able to access any files on this machine, leave 'File system'
 selected.  Otherwise, click on the checkmark to deselect it.

 At this point, the script asks if you wish to run the 'Services Manager'
 and 'Accounts Manager' at startup time.  If you choose to export anything
 whatsoever, you should answer yes.  These programs manage the exporting
 of your resources, and the user accounts on your machine respectively.

 The install script will now ask what type of network configuration
 you're using -- your options are 'simple network' and 'Internet'.
 Envoy is intended for small networks with several machines which all need
 to share resources.  However, it is still suitable for use in larger
 networks.  The simplest explanation of a 'simple' network is one where
 all of the machines on the network are connected to the same physical
 medium, with no gateways or routers.  A handful (say, under 100) of
 machines all connected together could make up a simple network.  Some
 settings, however, have extremely complex networks that require extensive
 networking knowledge.  Examples of this are most Universities and
 research centers.  These networks have many machines on 'subnets', which
 communicate with each other through routers (which act as a combination
 traffic-cop and roadmap for data packets, telling them how to get from
 point A to point B).

 Most people will want to use a 'simple' network, where the remaining
 installation is fairly simple.  However, if you're in a setting where
 you believe the network is non-simple, and don't understand any of the
 details, you're going to have to enlist the help of a network administrator,
 who understands the implications.

 SIMPLE NETWORK SETUP
 --------------------

    The first question asked of you is that of a name for your Amiga.
    You're required to provide a unique name for each computer you
    choose to install Envoy on.  The name can be nearly anything,
    with the limitations of 32 characters in length, and not using
    any symbols (such as the ':' (colon) character) in the name.

    Each machine is also required to be given a unique number.  The
    possible range is from 1 to 254.  More machines are technically
    possible in a simple network, but not necessarily practical.
    If you have more than 254 machines on a single stretch of networking
    cable, you should probably look into setting up a more complex
    network with subnets and gateways.

    Next, the script asks you what kind of networking device you're
    using.  If you're using a Commodore Ethernet or ARCNET card, simply
    select the given board.  If you're using a different networking
    card, select Other and contact the card's manufacturer for the
    information needed to complete the questions the board asks you.

    (NOTE:  If you're using the A2060 or A560 Commodore ARCNET cards,
            be sure to set the dip switches on the back to the binary
            equivilent of the unique number you entered above.  Note
            that some of the A2060's have diagrams which are incorrect,
            and number the DIP switches both upside-down and backwards,
            making your selection bitwise-backwards and inverted from
            what you might have thought you entered.)

    At this point, your installation is complete!

 INTERNET NETWORK SETUP
 ----------------------

    The first question asked of you is that of a name for your Amiga.
    You're required to provide a unique name for each computer you
    choose to install Envoy on.  The name can be nearly anything,
    with the limitations of 32 characters in length, and not using
    any symbols (such as the ':' (colon) character) in the name.

    Next, you're asked to provide an IP address for your machine.
    If your machine does not already have one (via AS225), you
    should contact your network administrator to obtain one.

    The script procedes to ask if your site is using the default
    subnet mask.  Ask your network administrator if this is so.

    Considering that most complex networks have accommodations for
    routers, you're given the opportunity to provide a 'default'
    route here.  (Other routes can be added with the 'Network
    Configuration' tool.)  Ask your network administrator for a
    default route.

    Whenever Envoy machines that must speak to one another lie on
    different physical networks (with routers in-between), the
    concept of 'Realms' becomes necessary.  Realms are conceptual
    groupings of machines into user-definable categories, like
    'Engineering', or 'Marketing'.  If you're interested in setting
    up Envoy in a complex network, you must select an Amiga to act
    as a 'Realm Server'.  A Realm Server merely acts as a central
    hub, realizing on which subnets certain realms (like 'Engineering',
    for example) exist.  For instance, if all machines in the
    Engineering Realm exist in the span of addresses of 137.239.10.1
    through 137.239.10.54, the Realm Server would be required to
    know how to speak to these machines as a group (using broadcast
    facilities).  After selecting a certain machine to act as your
    Realm Server, use the 'Network Configuration' tool to idenitify
    that machine as a Realm server.  Do this by selecting the
    'Use Realm Server' gadget on the first page, then proceding to
    select 'This host is a Realm Server'.  When selected, another
    configuration page is available in 'Network Configuration' -- the
    'Realm Configuration' page.  Go to this page and add several
    'local' Realms for each conceptual category.  You're required
    to provide both the name of the Realm -and- the Network address
    for that Realm.  This Network address is obtained by including
    '0's in the Address octets where multiple Envoy machines exist.

    For example, use the situation described above -- where all
    machines intended to be in the 'Engineering' Realm have addresses
    that lie in the range of 137.239.10.1 through 137.239.10.54.
    Since the fourth octect is variable, Envoy needs to be told
    that, to speak with the 'Engineering' realm, it needs to broadcast
    to everyone in 137.239.10.X -- which would be entered as
    137.239.10.0.  If a given realm exists across several subnets,
    several entries may be required.  For more information on
    Realms, see realms.doc.

    At this point in installation, you're asked to provide the name of
    the realm that your machine is in.  (Ex: 'Engineering')  Next,
    the script asks for the address of the machine that acts as your
    Realm Server.

    Lastly, the script asks you what kind of networking device you're
    using.  If you're using a Commodore Ethernet or ARCNET card, simply
    select the given board.  If you're using a different networking
    card, select Other and contact the card's manufacturer for the
    information needed to complete the questions the board asks you.

    (NOTE:  If you're using the A2060 or A560 Commodore ARCNET cards,
            be sure to set the dip switches on the back to the binary
            equivilent of the unique number you entered above.  Note
            that some of the A2060's have diagrams which are incorrect,
            and number the DIP switches both upside-down and backwards,
            making your selection bitwise-backwards and inverted from
            what you might have thought you entered.)

    At this point, your installation is complete!


