

                      Amiga TCP/IP Release 1.0 Addendum
   
   There are often changes and additions in a software product after the
   manual is printed.  This file contains a listing of these differences,
   as well as known problems which are intended to be fixed in a future
   release. 
   
   
   ----- General -----
   
   Many commands do not respond to control-c or breaks.  However most
   will time out in 30 seconds or less and give a message if a needed
   resource is not available.
   
   At present there is no way to terminate a server process except to
   reboot. 
   
   
   ----- Utilities -----
   
   ftp
   ---
   The current version of ftp does not use the .netrc file.  Ignore the
   message "netrc: Permission to access object is denied" that is displayed
   after an ftp connection is made.
   
   In the current release, ftp command is not robust and does not recover
   well if an error does occur.  Exit from ftp with the quit command and
   retry if an error occurs.
   
   lance-test
   ----------
   When an ethernet address is reported, ignore a series of F's that may
   be displayed.  Example: 00:FFFFFF23:00:10:44:A4 should be read as
   00:23:00:10:44:A4.  
   
   To abort lance-test, type control-c first, then press return.  If the
   control-c is omitted, it may be necessary to reboot.
   
   ls
   --
   The current "ls" command is based on the public domain ls written by
   Justin V. McCormick.  Type "ls -?" for more information.
   
   rcp
   ---
   Unreliable system operation or crashes may occur when several recursive
   rcp commands are run at the same time to or from the same Amiga.
   
   rlogin
   ------
   See the file "rlogin.doc" for more information on rlogin.  Many
   improvements and additions have been made since the manual was
   printed.  New features include resizable windows as well as full
   custom screen mode, cut & paste, and support for different fonts.
   
   Rlogin -c now calculates screen height from the PAL/NTSC jumper
   setting.  If the PAL/NTSC setting in Prefs does not match, screen
   height is incorrect in rlogin -c.  Rlogin -c incorrectly calculates
   screen width in Superhires modes.
   
   The rlogin command has a corresponding termcap file in the inet:Docs
   directory.  A termcap file is a standardized description of a
   terminal's capabilities that allows all applications that use termcap
   to run on any type of terminal.  The termcap file can be used directly
   with remote hosts, such as BSD UNIX, that use termcap for terminal
   handling.
   
   Terminfo is another terminal description method.  System V UNIX
   machines, including Amiga UNIX, provide support for both terminfo and
   termcap, although most newer applications use only terminfo.  The
   captoinfo and tic commands can be used to convert the termcap to an
   equivalent terminfo.  A terminfo.src file is also included for those
   who do not have the captoinfo command.  See the captoinfo and tic man
   pages on your UNIX machine for more detail. 
   
   rloginvt
   --------
   Rloginvt may be used instead of rlogin for applications that
   understand only vt100 type terminals.  Rloginvt uses a custom screen
   and lacks resizable windows, cut & paste, and support for different
   fonts.
   
   Rloginvt is most usable in 24 line, 80 column, vt100 mode.  Text may
   be misplaced in 49 line mode when an application uses certain screen
   commands.  This misplacement can insert, delete or change the wrong
   information when editors and some other screen applications are used.
   Emulations other than vt100 are incomplete. 
   
   Rloginvt will be replaced in a future version.
   
   tftp
   ----
   Tftp and tftpd were found to be unreliable and are not included in
   this release.

   
   ----- Configuration -----
   
   The umask value must be converted from the usual octal form into
   decimal.  For example, to set umask to 022, enter umask=18 in
   s:inet.config.  Octal will be supported in a future release.
   
   Make sure internet numbers in the inet:db/hosts file are entered
   correctly.  If any of the four segments are greater than 255, a
   modulo 256 of the segment value is used without any error message.
   For example, if 190.227.1.1 is accidentally entered as 190.277.1.1,
   the 277 will be stored as 21.  This will go undetected until
   communications fail to and from machines 190.227.1.1 or 190.21.1.1.

   
   ----- NFS File System -----
   
   AmigaDOS exclusive file locks are not supported on NFS files.
   Applications that use exclusive locks cannot safely share NFS files.
   
   Amiga TCP/IP NFS does not recognize symbolic links.  A symbolic link
   appears as an ordinary file containing the name of the linked file.
   
   The AmigaDOS R, W, and E protection bits are mapped to NFS r, w, and
   x, respectively.  The AmigaDOS bit is treated as set when
   the corresponding NFS bit is set for any of user, group, or other. 
   
   The AmigaDOS S,P,A and D file protection bits are not supported by
   NFS.  On the AmigaDOS side, the S,P and A bits are treated as always
   unset, and the D bit as always set.  A side effect is that files
   copied to NFS and back will have D set and S, P and A unset.
   
   The Amiga TCP/IP "chmod" command can set or unset user, group and other
   protections separately.
   
   AmigaDOS "protect" always sets or unsets user, group, and other 
   simultaneously.
   
   NFS file protections cannot be changed by the Workbench Information 
   (Info) command.
   
   Do NOT use ".." to refer to a parent directory in an NFS volume.
   Using ".." can extend above the NFS mount point and may crash the
   Amiga.  USE the normal "/" AmigaDOS equivalent, it is safe.  The
   ".." will work normally when typed directly to a UNIX host through
   rlogin or rloginvt.
   
   nfsmgr
   ------
   Nfsmgr has a new option "case".  This keyword tells the NFS software
   to stop doing any case manipulations and use the same case sensitivity
   as the remote volume.  Currently the Amiga NFS software does a case-
   insensitive search of a remote directory every time you create a file.
   This prevents you from creating a "Foo" and a "foo" file.  Case is
   preserved, just like normal for the Amiga.  
   
   If you mount a volume using the "case" keyword, this check is
   eliminated.  This speeds up some operations considerably and may be
   useful for people who desire case-sensitivity.
   
   example: nfsmgr mount unixhost:/usr/tmp tmp: case
