
 NETWORK PRINTING SUPPORT
 ------------------------

 This release of Envoy provides the ability for one machine to
 share it's printer with other machines on the network.

    TO SHARE A PRINTER:
    -------------------

    You should have answered "yes" at install time, when asked
    if you wanted to share or export a printer.  If not,
    use the "Services Configuration" utility, and drag the
    "printspool.service" icon out of Envoy/Services into the
    program's window.  Ensure that it's currently "enabled".
    You may have to reboot (or restart the services manager) for
    these changes to take effect.

    Use the "Printer Export" configuration utility to decide who
    can and cannot access your printer.  Once done, any of these
    people can print.

    TO USE A NETWORK PRINTER:
    -------------------------

    First, you have to provide the system with a way of knowing
    that you don't want to use simply a serial or parallel printer.
    The utility "Network Printing" will do this for you.  Use
    the utility to INSTALL network printing (if brought up from
    WB, a requester will ask you which you prefer).

    Next, use the utility "Printer Import" to select the machine
    whose printer you wish to access.

    Once done, any references to PRT:, or any output done through
    printer.device will be forwarded to the remote printer.

    Note:  Some programs made the mistake of assuming that the only
    forms of printing ever possible would be "serial" and "parallel",
    and bypassed the printer.device entirely.  There isn't an easy
    way to force these programs to conform.

    Note:  If the remote printer is a "PostScript" printer, the CLIENT
    must be using the "PostScript" printer driver; this similarly
    applies for other printer types as well.

    Note:  Several people have reported this as an 'Envoy' bug; older
    versions (2.1) of the Postscript printer driver are flawed --
    the 'pass through' option in the 'PrinterPS' program doesn't
    work correctly.  The driver does, however, have the ability to
    sense postscript files -- and will automatically go into
    passthrough mode if a postscript file is printed.  This is NOT
    an Envoy bug.  Please stop reporting it as such.  :')



